---
title: "Schedule 9: Definitions"
original:
    file: "AGV Constitution 2024-03-06.pdf"
    pages: [28]
---

In this Constitution:

***Act*** means the *Associations Incorporation Reform Act 2012*;

***Australian Greens*** means the Australian Greens (The Greens)
Incorporated, incorporated under the *Associations Incorporation Act
1991* (ACT) with association number A02626;

***ballot*** means a secret ballot that uses a single transferable vote
quota-preferential voting system, allows the option of not allocating
further preferences, uses Robson Rotation, and provides an option of
voting to ‘Seek Further Candidates’;

***casual vacancy*** includes a vacancy caused by an office not being
filled at an election;

***Charter*** means The Charter of The Greens which is appended to the
National Constitution;

***consensus*** means the circumstance in which no member of the party
body who is in attendance objects to the proposal being passed, having
been given the opportunity to do so;

***continuing State Councillor*** has the meaning given by Schedule 6,
item 1(2);

***disciplinary action*** has the meaning given by clause 34(1);

***disciplinary procedure*** has the meaning given by clause 34(2);

***election deliberation session*** has the meaning given by Schedule 6,
item (1);

***Greens party*** means one of the member bodies of the Australian
Greens;

***grievance procedure*** has the meaning given by clause 33;

***insolvent under administration*** has the meaning given in the
*Interpretation of Legislation Act 1984*;

***local government area*** has the meaning given to the term
***municipal district*** in the *Local Government Act 2020*;

***member body of the Australian Greens*** has the meaning given to the
term ***member body*** in the National Constitution;

***member who holds public office*** includes a member elected or
appointed to a public office where the term of that office is yet to
begin;

***members’ meeting substantive proposal*** has  
the meaning given by Schedule 3, item 2(7)(f);

***members’ plebiscite proposal*** has the meaning given by Schedule 3,
item 3(10)(a);

***National Constitution*** means the Constitution of the Australian
Greens;

***Party*** means the incorporated association referred to in
clause 41(1);

***party body*** means State Council, the Constitutional Votes
Committee, a branch, and any body established by exercise of the power
of State Council or a branch;

***party office*** means State Councillor, member of the Constitutional
Votes Committee, Secretary of the Association, and any named office
established by exercise of the power of State Council or a branch;

***party strategy*** means a general statement of the long-term aims and
objectives of the Party and how they should be achieved;

***policy*** means a statement of principle and intent about what
government should do;

***political party*** means a political party registered under
Commonwealth, state or territory law;

***public office*** means an elected office in a council or parliament;

***procedural proposal*** means a proposal about the proceedings of the
meeting at which it is put;

***reconsideration proposal*** means a proposal that a resolution of
State Council or a senior party body be rescinded;

***resolution*** means a proposal that was passed;

***Secretary of the Association*** has the meaning given in the Act;

***senior party body*** means a party body given that status under
clause 19(3);

***scheduled election*** has the meaning given by Schedule 6, item 2(1);

***special measure*** has the meaning given in the *Equal Opportunity
Act 2010*;

***special resolution*** means a special resolution of a general meeting
passed in accordance with the Act and clause 39(11);

***substantive proposal*** means any proposal that is not a procedural
or reconsideration proposal.


